We develop the recipe to separate the spectral counterparts of the AGN NGC 1275 from the emission of the Perseus cluster surrounding it in the spectra observed by Suzaku/XIS cameras with no usage of the spectral fitting models. The Perseus cluster emission reaches higher energies than is typical for the most AGN-situated dense surroundings (i.e. up to 9-10 keV). That is why the separation between the AGN and cluster spectra is especially important in this case. To avoid the degeneracy due to the huge quantity of the spectral fitting parameters such as abundances of elements the cluster consists of, thermal and Compton emission of the nucleus itself, and the jet SSC/IC emission spectral parameters as well we prefer to avoid the spectral fitting usage to perform this task. Instead, we use the spatial resolution of the components and double background subtracting. For this purpose we choose the following regions to collect all the photons from them: (1) circular or square-shaped region around the source (AGN); (2) ring-shaped (or non-overlapped square) region surrounding the AGN (for cluster); (3) remote empty circular region for the background. Having collected the photons from those regions we subtract the background (i.e. photons from the third region) from the source and cluster spectra. Next, we subtract the re-normalized cluster counts from the AGN spectrum; using the relation between the emission line amplitudes in the AGN and cluster spectra as the renormalization coefficient. 
We have performed this procedure on the whole set of the Suzaku/XIS observational data for NGC 1275 to obtain the cleaned spectra and light curve of the AGN emission in this system.
